Add Documentation for End-to-End Test Suite (#203)
mautic/developer-documentation-new: docs/testing/e2e_test_suite.rst

- Generate a page object with:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept generate:pageobject acceptance ExamplePage

This creates an ``ExamplePage.php`` file in ``/tests/Support/Page/Acceptance``.

- Generate step objects with:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept generate:stepobject acceptance Example

This creates an ``Example.php`` file in ``/tests/Support/Step/Acceptance``.

Running tests
=============

You can start tests using the ``run`` command provided by Codeception. Here are different ways to run your tests:

**Run all tests**

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run

**Run all acceptance tests**

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run acceptance

**Run a specific test file**

If you need to run a specific test file, such as ``ContactManagementCest``, use:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run acceptance ContactManagementCest

**Run a specific test scenario**

To run a specific scenario within a test file, you can specify the test method like this:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run acceptance ContactManagementCest:createContactFromForm

View test results
=================

> After running the tests, the results are displayed in the terminal. Additionally, any failures generate snapshots and HTML reports in the ``_output`` directory, which you can use for debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the tests, Codeception returns the results in the terminal. Additionally, any failures generate snapshots and HTML reports in the ``_output`` directory, which you can use for debugging.
```

    bin/codecept build

The ``codeception.yml`` and ``tests/acceptance.suite.yml`` configurations are already in place.

.. vale off

Configuring the test environment
*********************************

.. vale on

In acceptance tests, your tests interact with the app through a web server, using the same database as the app. To avoid modifying the actual app database during tests, you should configure a separate test database. This setup ensures that the test environment doesn't affect your production data and allows for isolated testing.

Whenever you need to run the tests, make sure to update ``.env.local`` to enable test mode.

1. Edit .env.local:

Set the environment to test mode.

.. code-block:: bash

    # .env.local
    APP_ENV=test
    APP_DEBUG=1

2. Configure Test Database Credentials:

Ensure that your ``.env.test.local`` file contains the correct credentials for the test database.

.. code-block:: bash

    # .env.test.local
    DB_HOST=db
    DB_USER=db
    DB_PASSWD=db
    DB_NAME=test

Mautic uses the ``db`` database for production and ``test`` database for running tests.

.. vale off

Acceptance Tests Structure
**************************

.. vale on

> All tests are located in the tests/ directory, with codeception.yml in the root directory. The tests use WebDriver and Db modules, with configurations specified in acceptance.suite.yml. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The directory tests/ contains all tests, with ``codeception.yml`` in the root directory. The tests use WebDriver and Db modules, with configurations specified in ``acceptance.suite.yml``. 
```

Converting this to active from passive voice. Also fixing the missing inline code definitions for the filenames.

> Tests are executed in real browsers using the W3C WebDriver protocol, with Selenium managing browser interactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Codeception runs the tests in real browsers using the W3C WebDriver protocol, with Selenium managing browser interactions.
```

Converting to active voice and tweaking to use runs rather than executes.

Here’s an overview of tests directory structure:

.. image:: images/e2e_test_suite.png
    :width: 300
    :alt: Tests directory structure

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Directory
     - Description
   * - ``_data/``
     - Contains fixture data used in tests, including SQL dump files and sample CSV files.
   * - ``_output/``
     - Contains output from tests in case of failures. This includes snapshots of the browser in JPEG format and generated HTML reports for troubleshooting.
   * - ``_support/``
     - 

>        - ``AcceptanceTester.php``: Contains login logic that runs before each test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - ``AcceptanceTester.php``: contains login logic that runs before each test.
```

>        - ``Helper/``: Stores custom helper functions. For example, DbHelper.php automates the process of generating SQL dump files and populating the database. It prepares the database from scratch if no dump file exists and exports a SQL file for future use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - ``Helper/``: stores custom helper functions. For example, ``DbHelper.php`` automates the process of generating SQL dump files and populating the database. It prepares the database from scratch if no dump file exists, and exports a SQL file for future use.
```

>        - ``Page/``: Stores UI locators for each page. Avoid hard-coding complex CSS or XPath locators in tests; instead, use PageObject classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - ``Page/``: stores UI locators for each page. Avoid hard-coding complex CSS or XPath locators in tests; instead, use PageObject classes.
```

>        - ``Step/``: Contains step objects that group common functionalities for tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - ``Step/``: contains step objects that group common functionalities for tests.
```

   * - ``acceptance/``
     - Contains acceptance tests.

> .. vale off

Reviewer: This is not needed, let's fix the problem rather than hide it :)

> Writing and Running Tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing and running tests
```

Heading should not use camel case, only use Vale Off if there's a reason to do so (e.g. you're using a branded term, or a part of Mautic, which we capitalise)

Author: So, should I remove the vale off and vale on from all the headings?

Reviewer: Yes. You only use vale off if you have to break the grammar rules relating to sentence case (e.g. having to use Points in capital as you're referring to Mautic's Points system).

**************************

> .. vale on

Reviewer: Remove this when you remove the off statement please :)

Writing tests
=============

> Writing tests in Codeception involves creating files within the tests/Acceptance directory. Each file contains a class with methods that define the test scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing tests in Codeception involves creating files within the ``tests/Acceptance`` directory. Each file contains a class with methods that define the test scenarios.
```

> 1. Create a New Test File: Use the following command to generate a new file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a New Test File: use the following command to generate a new file:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept generate:cest acceptance <TestName>

> This command will create a file named TestSuiteNameCest.php inside the tests/Acceptance directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will create a file named ``TestSuiteNameCest.php`` inside the ``tests/Acceptance`` directory.
```

> 2. Define Test Scenarios: Open the generated file and define your test scenarios. Each method within the class represents a different scenario. Use Codeception's built-in assertions and helper functions to verify the expected outcomes. Here’s a simple example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Define Test Scenarios: open the generated file and define your test scenarios. Each method within the class represents a different scenario. Use Codeception's built-in assertions and helper functions to verify the expected outcomes. Here’s an example:
```

What's simple for you might not be for others, so let's use inclusive language here :)

.. code-block:: PHP

    <?php

    class TestSuiteNameCest
    {
        public function _before(AcceptanceTester $I)
        {
            // Code to run before each test
        }

        public function _after(AcceptanceTester $I)
        {
            // Code to run after each test
        }

        // Define your test methods

        public function login(AcceptanceTester $I)
        {
            $I->amOnPage('/s/login');
            $I->fillField('#username', $name);
            $I->fillField('#password', $password);
            $I->click('button[type=submit]');
            $I->see('Dashboard');
        }
    }

3. Utilize PageObjects and StepObjects:

> Organize your tests by using PageObject and StepObject classes. This keeps your tests clean and maintainable by separating locators and test steps into reusable components.

Reviewer: Please be consistent with your use of colons and line breaks - elsewhere the text is on the same line but here it's a new line. Let's pick one or the other and stick to it, I'd recommend previewing it and deciding what works best from a layout / readability perspective.

Author: I think a new line would be better for readability. What do you think?

Reviewer: Could you share a screenshot of the rendered output with/without?

Author: Option 1:
(with new line)
<img width="400" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b195fd9-a83d-4ff4-a0cd-4b969ed70964">

Option 2:
(with same line)
<img width="400" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8405ddfb-3a51-4464-b2fb-e4d9a3200842">

Reviewer: I agree, I think it's more readable on a new line. If we do that I don't think we need the colon at the end of the title/heading though. Otherwise, all good!

> - Generate PageObject with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generate a page object with:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept generate:pageobject acceptance ExamplePage

> This will create an ExamplePage.php file in /tests/Support/Page/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates an ``ExamplePage.php`` file in ``/tests/Support/Page/``.
```

Converting to active from passive and adding the inline code syntax.

- Generate step objects with:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept generate:stepobject acceptance Example

> This will create an Example.php file in/tests/Support/Step/Acceptance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates an ``Example.php`` file in ``/tests/Support/Step/Acceptance``.
```
Fixing missing space, inline code syntax and also converting to active from passive.

> Running Tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running tests
```

We don't use camel case in headings: https://developers.google.com/style/capitalization#capitalization-in-titles-and-headings

=============

> You can start tests using the run command provided by Codeception. Here are different ways to run your tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can start tests using the ``run`` command provided by Codeception. Here are different ways to run your tests:
```

As we are mentioning a specific command I think we should inline code wrap it so it stands out as such - WDYT?

Author: Okay, I have changed it.

> **Run All Tests**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Run all tests**
```

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run

> **Run All Acceptance Tests**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Run all acceptance tests**
```

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run acceptance

> **Run a Specific Test File**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Run a specific test file**
```

> If you need to run a specific test file, such as ContactManagementCest, use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to run a specific test file, such as ``ContactManagementCest``, use:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run acceptance ContactManagementCest

> **Run a Specific Test Scenario**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Run a specific test scenario**
```

> To execute a specific scenario within a test file, you can specify the test method like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a specific scenario within a test file, you can specify the test method like this:
```

Let's be consistent and use 'run' rather than execute.

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run acceptance ContactManagementCest:createContactFromForm

> View Test Results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View test results
```

=================

> After running the tests, the results will be displayed in the terminal. Additionally, any failures will generate snapshots and HTML reports in the _output directory, which you can use for debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the tests, the results are displayed in the terminal. Additionally, any failures generate snapshots and HTML reports in the ``_output`` directory, which you can use for debugging.
```

> Additional Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional options
```

==================

> **Print Steps:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Print steps:**
```

To see a step-by-step breakdown of the test execution, use:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run acceptance ContactManagementCest --steps

> **Verbose Output**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Verbose output**
```

For more detailed internal debug information, use:

.. code-block:: bash

    bin/codecept run acceptance ContactManagementCest -vvv

> View Tests in the Browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View tests in the browser
```

=========================

> You can watch your tests being executed in an automated browser by visiting the following URL: https://mautic.ddev.site:7900/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can watch your tests being executed in an automated browser by visiting the following URL: ``https://mautic.ddev.site:7900/``
```

> noVNC Access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``noVNC`` Access:
```

I think this will need inline code syntax.

``Password: secret``

Contributing
************

> Contributions to the test suite are welcome. Please follow the guidelines for submitting pull requests.

Reviewer: Can we link to this so we aren't leaving people hanging? You can use the existing link reference from docs/links/mautic_tester_docs.py with the :xref: syntax.
